you've delivered a presentation it's
gone really well but now you're at the
final stages and you're wondering how do
I wrap it up how do I conclude this
speech in this video I am going to give
you my number one tip for the best way
you can end any speech before I get into
the best way to end your speech I want
to start with three things you should
avoid doing to ending your speech and
the first is this all right well uh um
that's about my time that's that's all I
got thank you everyone for coming out I
really appreciate it and yeah thanks a
lot everyone I have seen many speakers
end this way and it's really unfortunate
because it brings your speech to a
screeching halt and it falls flat people
are going to remember the book ends of
your presentation meaning the way you
introduce your presentation your opening
and they will remember your conclusion
and even if you have great information
that's in the middle of your speech if
you have a flat
ending people aren't going to walk away
with as much value as they should the
second thing I want you to avoid doing
when wrapping up your speech is
apologizing hey everyone I'm so sorry it
looks like my time's up I must have gone
over time sorry about that sorry I know
we started a little bit late as well
thank you for coming out appreciate it
like the previous example an ending such
as this where you're
apologizing it's going to fall flat it's
going to feel abrupt and the issue is
you shouldn't be apologizing because if
the timing was an issue that's on you to
ensure that your speech is practiced
enough that you've gone through the
preparation to ensure that you're going
to be on time by apologizing it takes
away from your presentation the third
and probably most common thing I've seen
that I want you to avoid when giving a
presentation is ending on questions that
might seem like a bad idea especially
because Q&A is one of the most valuable
parts of any
presentation and I don't think you
should avoid Q&A necessarily it can be a
great part of your presentation but what
I'm asking is to not end on Q&A because
what you're doing when you complete your
speech and then you open it for
questions is that you're allowing the
conclusion of your speech to be outside
of your control and I can't tell you how
many times I've given a great speech and
then I've opened it up for Q&A and the
final question may be something random
about how the technology isn't working
properly for them and if I can help them
with that after the speech and then if
that is the situation once again it's
not going to end on a high note note
it's kind of that lull instead what I
think you should do if you're going to
incorporate Q&A is build that in perhaps
5 10 minutes before your conclusion
allow time for questions and then have
one final thought one final way that you
control it you control the end of your
speech you end on a final note that way
you can ensure that both your
introduction and your conclusion are as
strong as possible so I've told you what
not to do when it comes to ending your
speech so the question remains well how
do I conclude my speech or presentation
and the answer is by making it come full
circle what this means is that your
ending of your speech is going to have a
lot to do with how you introduce your
speech and there's an opportunity no
matter how you introduce your speech if
you're doing one of the Tactical ways to
hook the audience which includes a
powerful statement a question jumping
right into a story basically anything
outside of hi everyone for those who
don't know me my name is Wade and I'm
here today to talk to you
about many speeches begin that way and
it's a missed opportunity I have another
video that talks about how to hook your
audience so go check out that video
which is going to teach you about great
introductions but once you have that gr
introduction
then you continue through the structure
or the body of your speech and what your
conclusion should do is it should
reference that intro how you began your
speech what this is going to do is it's
going to be incredibly powerful to the
audience they are going to feel as
though you've taken them on this journey
that has been well crafted and that you
knew the whole time that while you took
them through various ideas and Concepts
and stories that it all was going to be
tied back together that you were going
to wrapid bow on this presentation and
end with a powerful statement and this
is one of the most satisfying ways to
build a speech it's going to leave a
lasting impact on your audience and it's
going to feel really great from you the
speaker's point of view I'll give you
two examples of how you can do this the
first is for a wedding speech and again
many people stand up and they introduce
themselves as hi everyone my name is
Wade I'm the best man at today's wedding
that is unnecessary you don't need to do
that there's probably programs on the
table that have your name in that role
or maybe there's an MC who has already
introduced you regardless you don't need
to waste the first few valuable seconds
of a speech introducing yourself instead
you can say something more powerful
that's going to hook the audience's
attention for example today I am Billy's
best man but in fifth grade we were
Archen
enemies all right now we've got a story
there is something powerful there that
is going to grab the audience's
attention so how do you conclude a
speech like that well I'm sure the body
or the structure of the speech would
have probably told that story about
fifth grade would have mentioned some
nice things about Billy and the person
Billy is marrying so then the conclusion
could be something like this even though
my fifth grade self would disagree I
wish Billy and Sarah all the happiness
in the future this is an example of a
full circle conclusion I had the
introduction which hook the audience's
attention I would have my speech
structure and then the conclusion it
references the beginning it references
that fifth grade moment comes full
circle and it ties a bow on it or maybe
you're leading an office meeting and
you're thinking well wait what's an
example that would have to do with
business well many office meetings start
the exact same way they're fairly
informal they say hey everyone welcome
this week here's what we're going to
talk about why not use that same speech
presentation structure to hook the
audience even though it's a meeting you
can still grasp the audience's attention
with a powerful question for example are
we the disruptors or are we about to be
disrupted okay now you've got the
attention of your employees that is a
powerful statement of what repercussions
perhaps lie ahead how this is very
serious how you need to be focused on
this so that will grab the audience's
attention then of course the
presentation or the meeting would
probably run through some numbers that
will show you how your company is doing
maybe projected forecasts for the future
you will have all of that data and
information so how do you conclude a
meeting or a presentation or a business
speech such as that based on the full
circle concept you could wrap this
speech up by saying Based on q1 data and
consumer sentiment it's true we continue
to be the industry dis disruptors your
employees or your audience of a business
presentation like that will be
incredibly impressed first off you've
just like the wedding speech you've
taken them on a journey and this has
been really well put together but also
this is such a unique and rare thing to
see at an office meeting or a business
presentation we often think of these
presentations as being a bit dull but
instead you've structured it really well
and by doing that the benefit to you is
that that the audience is more likely to
retain the information I hope this video
and these examples on how to end your
presentation have been beneficial do you
have questions for me let me know in the
comments let me know what's worked well
for you in terms of concluding your
speeches and if you have not yet done so
please subscribe to my channel because
it is my goal whether you're in the
Toast Masters program or you are simply
focused on being a better speaker a more
impactful Communicator I want to help
you along that journey and by
subscribing to my channel you're going
to have continuous access to a lot of
great free video content thank you so
much for taking the time to watch this
video and I'll catch you on the next one